almost everywhere you look you will find
invasive plants in the landscape an
invasive plant is non-native spreads
rapidly grows rapidly and produces
abundant seeds that live for a long time
in the soil today I'd like to show you a
few invasive plants that I'm currently
doing battle with the Tree of Heaven was
introduced in Victorian times as an
ornamental today you will find it
growing everywhere because it is a
remarkably invasive plant it grows to 30
feet tall and is also called a stinking
shoe mock because it resembles a shoe
mock until you break a stem and then it
really stinks it propagates by seeds and
sprouting from the roots each female
tree produces an average of three
hundred and twenty-five thousand seeds a
year so control is focused on limiting
seed production the method of control
you use depends on the size of tree
you're working with small to medium
trees like this spraying with roundup
brush killer is very effective but you
have to be very careful when using
roundup because it is a non-selective
herbicide and will kill every plant it
comes in contact with when working with
a large tree you have to either cut or
girdle it to remove the tree but what
will happen is you will soon have an
army of sprouts coming up from the roots
which you then have to spray or mow
again if you're lucky enough to have
just one small Tree of Heaven to worry
about a weed wrench is a great way to
control it
autumn olive is a thorny shrub from East
Asia that grows quickly to 15 to 20 feet
it produces lots of seeds in the fall
that look like olives which the birds
love which is how it gets spread so
quickly through the landscape if you
want to get rid of a bush this size what
you have to do is cut it down but once
you cut it is going to re sprout from
the roots so you're going to have to cut
it or spray it again if you're dealing
with the plant this size the easiest way
to get rid of it is spraying it with
roundup brush killer so don't wait
Japanese Barbary is another example of a
plant which was sold for its ornamental
value but has since escaped into the
forests and natural areas creating a lot
of problems there it's a thorny shrub
that grows eight to ten feet tall and
produces a lot of seeds which are spread
by birds one of the most damaging things
about this plant is that it raises the
pH level of the soil thus making the
soils around it inhospitable for forest
plants which like acid soils if you want
to get rid of a Japanese Barbary this
size the most effective way to do it is
to spray it with roundup brush killer if
you're working with one two or three
single stems you can pull them out by
hand only make sure to wear gloves and
long sleeves these are but a few of the
many invasive plants in the landscape I
hope what you've seen tonight will allow
you to identify those on your property
you start you on the road to controlling
them
you
a copy of the program you've just seen
can be purchased through penn state
media sales at media sales psu edu or by
calling